Welcome to making TypeScript Stick.
My name is Mike North,
I'm a senior staff engineer at LinkedIn,
where I work on developer infrastructure.
I've been a Frontend Masters
instructor since 2015.
And you may have seen some of my
other courses on the platform,
like TypeScript fundamentals and
intermediate TypeScript.
These two courses represent learning the
programming language, and after completing
these you should be comfortable
reading a lot of TypeScript code.
There are also these other great
courses on the platform that,
to some extent assume you already
have a lot of TypeScript knowledge.
And these courses on the bottom are about
applying that knowledge to solving
a new problem.
For example, in JS and TS Monorepos,
we deal with the idea of having multiple
subpackages within a single Git repo.
And it's almost taken as a given that you
can work with TypeScript proficiently.
So when Mark the Frontend Master CEO and
I were discussing what's next in
the TypeScript world for Frontend Masters,
I told them that I wanted to
help people cross this gap here.
And this gap represents the kind of
thing that you acquire through personal
experience through practice, right?
And that's what this course is all about.
Aside from some updates that have landed
recently in the TypeScript programming
language which we'll review, there's not
gonna be a whole lot of new material here.
This is more about making
TypeScript Stick in your mind.
The inspiration of this course
is a book called Make It Stick,
the Science of Successful for Learning.
This book deals with topics like knowledge
retention and building a mental model and
getting from a state where you have
memorized a bunch of facts and
you can recall them and
you can recite them, right?
That's sort of the beginning of learning.
And then how do you get from there to
being an expert where you can take what
you've learned and apply it to
a problem you haven't seen before.
So make it stick is a great
book if you're interested,
it's really popular among educators,
and in fact we're using it
at LinkedIn to create the next
version of our new hire bootcamp.
So what does this mean for
what you can expect from this course?
Well, first, we're going to go through
some challenging learning experiences.
And this is because there's some
science that suggests challenging
learning experiences sink
in more effectively, right?
If we were to sit here all day and
do really easy problems,
it's not a very memorable thing, right?
You're not gonna get a lot out of it,
similar to if you go to the gym and
you pick up the lightest
weight you can find.
You're not going to actually build any
muscle or get more fit through doing that,
you need to kind of push your boundaries.
And when I say challenging of course,
I mean interesting problems that
are sort of pushing the boundaries.
We're not just gonna shrink the text
on the slide really small so
you can hardly read it, there has
to be a meaningful challenge there.
So, another thing you'll notice
is there's going to be varied and
randomized practice.
So if you've ever taken a class maybe in
school where you kind of have a lecture
and then a test immediately
following that lecture.
And then you move on to another topic and
you never return to that first thing,
it's very easy for
that information to fall out of your mind.
Effectively you're giving your brain
permission to let go of that information
through not using it.
So, part of what make
it stick advocates for
is continued recall of that information
as you apply it in different ways.
And you're gonna see that we come at
TypeScript from all sorts of different
angles.
There are gonna be some games,
some hands on programming challenges,
some discussion, some kind of wacky
challenges where we'll try to
solve problems using
only type information.
And the idea here is to see these things
from all sorts of different angles,
so that we maximize the potential for
you to have that moment of enlightenment
where the light bulb turns on and
you feel like you get it, right?
In terms of reaching that moment
of clarity, a lot of people get
there through either rule-based or
example-based approaches.
And you may find that one of
these ways works for you,
people generally fall into
one of these two buckets.
People who prefer a rule-based approach,
they want to learn about the rules of
a system and
the kind of build up their mental model.
And maybe they can understand how
something works without seeing too many
examples, but they want to see the
specification, like how does this work?
How does mental work?
Others don't get a lot out of sort
of that theoretical knowledge,
they want to compare and contrast
different examples in the real world.
And they kind of infer how
things work based on that, and
that's how they reached that
moment of enlightenment.
So we're gonna have a mix of these two,
just because I want to turn on as many
light bulbs as I can for all of you.
In terms of how I recommend taking this
course, not that it's an option for
those watching live, but
if you're watching the video,
try to space this course out a little bit.
Watch a little every morning for a week,
give this a little bit of room to breathe.
There is some research that suggests
space it out learning is about
90% more effective than cramming, right?
So if you've ever crammed for
an exam study like crazy the night before,
everything kind of falls out, you sort of
put everything in your short term cache,
it's very easy to let go.
So space it out, and
also own your learning journey.
So this is something that I do, I have
a learning journal where when I have
trouble wrapping my head around something,
I'll write it down,
I'll write down what parts
of that topic confuse me.
And, this gives me a place to keep coming
back when I have time to invest in
myself and to sort things up and
do some extra reading.
It helps focus me in and
spend my time on the things that are
blocking me from sort of moving forward.
And as an added benefit every time
you're struggling with something if you
open this book and
you see a bunch of crossed out topics.
The things that seemed
impossible at one point in time,
it's very reassuring to say this
current thing that seems like I'm never
gonna get it, it's just like things
that I've conquered before, right?
It's just one more thing to the pile.
So with that,
let's jump over to the course website,
bit.ly, and then make-ts-stick.